# audio_visualizer

The goal for this project is to create an audio editor and visualizer, it is a severe work-in-progress.

Originally, the goal was to make this work for a variety of audio formats, but I have decided to only focus on wav formatted files.

Current functionality:
* Play song entered into application
* Reverse song
* Trim leading or trailing seconds from song
* Make song 8-bit (partial functionality)
* Normalize volume
* Apply dither
* Output song
* Cleaned up project

Future functionality:
* Slow or speed up file
* Basic remove lyrics
* Visualize data in waveform
* Possibly stream waveform audio visualizer when song plays
* Use the custom recorder service for something because it was cool

## Running the project
After cloning the project, you will need to install the SFML library (There are instructions on their website on how to do this).

Also, make sure to download a arial.ttf file (This can be found through a quick Google search).

I coded this in vscode and created a tasks.json file for running it, it currently looks like this (You'll need something similar):

```
{
    "tasks": [
        {
            "type": "cppbuild",
            "label": "C/C++: g++ build active file",
            "command": "/usr/bin/g++",
            "args": [
                "-fdiagnostics-color=always",
                "-g",
                "${file}",
                "-o",
                "${fileDirname}/${fileBasenameNoExtension}",
                "application.cpp",
                "models/wav.cpp",
                "services/custom_recorder_service.cpp",
                //"../models/wav.cpp",
                "-lavcodec",
                "-lavformat",
                "-I/<installation for sfml>",
                "-L/<installation for sfml>",
                "-lsfml-graphics",
                "-lsfml-window",
                "-lsfml-system",
                "-lsfml-audio",
                "-std=c++11"
            ],
            "options": {
                "cwd": "${fileDirname}"
            },
            "problemMatcher": [
                "$gcc"
            ],
            "group": {
                "kind": "build",
                "isDefault": true
            },
            "detail": "Task generated by Debugger."
        }
    ],
    "version": "2.0.0"
}
```

Once you've set up the project and installed the needed library and font, you can run the application which should start up to a screen instructing you to enter a file.

Make sure to specify a wav file (Also include ".wav" at the end: Example: "sample-file-3.wav") and not another format.

From there, you will enter into another screen that will give you some options of messing with the audio file.

Currently, through the application, you have the ability to reverse the audio file and output it to a new wav file in the project directory, as well as pause and play the audio file.

More functionality will be added over time (There is currently no error handling on the types of files that can be loaded, I recommend only attempting to load wav files).
